# Temporary Alignment Notes

_Last updated: 2025-10-17_

This document is a scratch pad for understanding the transplanted tooling. We will delete it once alignment is complete.

## Snapshot (read-only observations)
- Root contains `.repo_studios/`, `.git/`, and `README.md`; all migrated assets live under `.repo_studios/`.
- Hidden `.repo_studios/` now holds `docs/`, `scripts/`, `reports/`, and `tests/` along with a legacy `Makefile` referencing prior project paths.
- Standards artifacts (mix of `copilot_standards_*` and `repo_standards_*` naming) currently reside under `.repo_studios/docs` and the archived `.repo_studios_legacy/repo_docs` tree.
- Operational scripts (health, standards, monkey patch scanning, etc.) sit under `.repo_studios/scripts`, but the Makefile still points to former locations like `scripts/` and `.repo_studios/`.
- `reports/` includes historical outputs (anchor health, churn complexity, lizard, monkey patch, pytest logs, typecheck, etc.) likely generated in the original repo.
- `tests/` mixes pytest suites and config files that expect the old directory layout and may rely on missing data directories.

## Open Questions (please answer inline)
1. Which portions of this tool suite are mandatory for every new project versus optional add-ons we can keep modular?
   Answer: There are different focuses for the files. Some .py files are running cli and routing the reports to certain folder locations, some .py files are summerizing the report, some .py files are orchistrating and triggering other .py files, some .py files are tests of the other .py files. Docs are part explaination docs, some are standards docs, some are instructions docs, some are reports, some are itineraries, some are repo indexes. All are made for the coding agent to see history and the repo health with a snapshot from many angles and importances. Then to see over duration. Then to learn from repeated flags and issues and errors to then update the standards and instructions. Plus more
   Assistant response: Got it. I will build the inventory with categorical tags for each asset (orchestrator, CLI generator, summarizer, test, standards, history) so we can mark which ones belong in the always-on core and which we can toggle per project.

2. Should `.repo_studios` remain a hidden staging area, or do you want these assets promoted into visible top-level folders (`scripts/`, `docs/`, `reports/`, `tests/`, etc.)?
   Answer: My intention is for the projects that this is used for later for development that these attributes and functions remain separated from the actual repo  itself. They dont need to be lost in the shuffle of many repo functional files to be intertwined. 
   Assistant response: Understood. We will treat `.repo_studios/` as the canonical home for the utility suite so it stays distinct from the product code. I will plan the layout assuming we keep tools, docs, reports, and tests under that hidden root.

3. Among the documentation files (e.g. `AGENTS_GUIDE.md`, `repo_standards_markdown.md`, `repo_standards_project.md`), which should we treat as canonical references in the template and which are historical/background only?
   Answer: This is where we get interesting. This "Repo Studios" is for my use and not the public. Because I wish to build "components in separate projects to be made to work together in a modular methodology, then I would like to maintain standards across projects. This method, when projects are working together, are not sharing the same systems and databases- information and functionality and friction can be isolated and permissioned. So the standards that we make will be for all of my personal projects so most of the standards can be recycled, but not all.
   Assistant response: Thanks for the context. I will flag which documents serve as global standards for all personal projects versus those that should remain project-specific so we can separate reusable boilerplate from per-repo customizations.

4. The current Makefile references legacy paths (`scripts/...`, `.repo_studios/...`, `tests/...`). Should we recreate that legacy structure, or adapt the automation to wherever we relocate the assets now?
   Answer: In the repo that I have taken this from. ".repo_studios" was the name that I now have changed to "repo_studios". I have used the replacement tool to alter most of the names
   Assistant response: Acknowledged. I will double-check the current tree (including `repo_studios_legacy/` if present) and plan a normalized `.repo_studios/` structure, then update automation to match the new canonical paths instead of recreating the old ones.

5. Do we need to retain the historical reports under `.repo_studios/repo_reports/`, or can we archive/prune them and keep only structure/examples?
   Answer: I kept some of the reports for you to see the examples. We will improve these reports as we move forward. Some should be .yaml and some should be just how they are
   Assistant response: Perfect. I will mark the existing reports as reference samples and note which formats we intend to evolve to YAML so we can build cleanup rules without losing the illustrative artifacts.

6. What Python version and dependency set should the template assume? Do we have an existing `requirements.txt`, `pyproject.toml`, or similar we should port over?
   Answer: All of my projects will be python based and we will conversate about other aspects that we can decide as we move thourgh the project. You will understand why as we progress through this jouorney. 
   Assistant response: Understood. I will wait for your lead on the baseline Python version and dependency strategy, but I will keep a placeholder in the plan so we don’t forget to lock that down before templating.

7. Are the tests in `.repo_studios/repo_tests/` intended to stay as active CI coverage for the template, or are they legacy checks that we can refactor/retire?
   Answer: Tests and enhancements and updates and alterations will happen in the later phases and as we progress. I believe in high standards for tests and high test coverages. This keeps the repo functional and ease maintenance
   Assistant response: Great. I will account for those tests as part of the template’s core quality gate and note which ones need path updates so they continue to run once the structure is reorganized.

8. Several scripts embed environment-specific paths (e.g., `/home/founder/jarvis2`). Should we parameterize these before templating, or leave them as placeholders for now?
   Answer: That is the repo that I have taken this from. The file path is stale and we will update through our progress
   Assistant response: Acknowledged. I will list each hard-coded path and propose a configuration mechanism (env vars or config file) so we can cleanse them during the restructuring phase.

9. What retention policy do you want for generated artifacts (pytest logs, health reports, baselines)? Should the template include `.gitignore` rules or cleanup scripts for these directories?
   Answer: We will capture other elements, like `.gitignore` as we progress. There are elements that we will begin that will remain as boilerplate
   Assistant response: Sounds good. I will prepare recommendations for baseline `.gitignore` entries and cleanup helpers but hold off until we lock the directory layout.

10. Do we need the full automation suite (Make targets, health checks, reports) wired into CI/CD immediately, or can we phase in enforcement after the structure is stabilized?
   Answer: We do need to consider where to begin. And I enjoy a folder layout and structure. We can work together on this and I can move the files to their new home, or you can recreate in the new location. My suggestion is we begin a new folder called `/.repo_studios/`, which I have made and I have renamed the original to `/repo_studios_legacy/`. And we start fresh and move one step at a time
     Assistant response: Excellent. I will verify the new hidden `.repo_studios/` scaffold, treat the legacy copy as read-only reference material, and draft a phased plan that starts with directory layout and gradual automation rewire.

## Follow-up Questions (round 2)
1. Does it make sense to maintain an explicit catalog that tags every script and document with its role (orchestrator, report generator, summarizer, standards, instructions, tests)?
   Answer: yes - indexing, catelogs, file tree are all important. Schemas--- we desire consistency
   Assistant response: Perfect. I will design the inventory schema to capture role tags, maturity stage, and dependencies so we can keep everything consistent and searchable for the AI-first workflows.

2. For the new `.repo_studios/` layout, would you prefer we keep the current subfolders (`repo_docs/`, `repo_scripts/`, `repo_reports/`, `repo_tests/`) or rename them to shorter forms like `docs/`, `scripts/`, `reports/`, `tests/` under the hidden root?
   Answer: Your choice. This is being designed for AI first. Developers a distant second
   Assistant response: Understood. I will optimize the layout for machine discoverability first—likely shortening folder names while keeping rich metadata so agents can traverse quickly, and we can document the mapping for human developers afterward.

3. To support reusable standards across projects, should we split the documentation into `global/` and `project/` subsets, or handle project-specific overrides via a separate folder?
   Answer: I like that 
   Assistant response: Great. I will sketch a two-tier structure (`standards/global` vs `standards/project`) with an override mechanism so each repo can extend without duplicating the core corpus.

4. Among the sample reports you retained, which ones should be converted to YAML (e.g., health suites, monkey patch trends) versus kept in their existing text/JSON formats?
   Answer: Reports that have multiple sections and are the main focus of the AI that will be using the doc
   Assistant response: Noted. I will flag multi-section, AI-centric reports for YAML conversion and keep routine logs in their lighter existing formats unless there is a strong benefit to normalize them.

5. When we reorganize tests, should they remain Python modules inside `.repo_studios/repo_tests/`, or do you want a parallel `tests/` tree (with symlinks or references) for CI tools that expect conventional locations?
   Answer: We will keep repo_studios as a separate studio and quarantined from future projects 
   Assistant response: Understood. I will plan for tests to live entirely inside `.repo_studios/` and document how CI should point to that quarantined suite when needed.

6. For cleansing hard-coded paths, do you prefer environment variables, a central config file, or a command-line flag approach for the scripts?
   Answer: That depends on the use, doesn't it? We have to consider that when a project is young and being scaffolded then there are less restrictions and the restrictions are throttled as the project matures. 
   Assistant response: Makes sense. I will propose a layered approach: defaults in a config file, overridable by env vars or CLI flags so the guardrails can tighten as the project matures.

7. Before we bake this into future repos, should we define a minimal bootstrap doc (e.g., `SETUP.md`) outlining Python version, virtualenv instructions, and required prerequisites for the tool suite?
   Answer: Good question. The answer will be yes, in time. These types of instruction should be evolving as we develop and updated along the way
   Assistant response: Great. I will earmark a living `SETUP.md` (or similar) as part of the roadmap, ensuring we capture evolving bootstrap instructions once the structure settles.

## Next Steps (pending your guidance)--- NOT YET
- Confirm the target layout and canonical assets.
- Map each existing tool/doc/report to its future home.
- Plan cleanup and migration tasks for stale or environment-specific data.

## Follow-up Questions (round 3)
1. For the inventory schema you want, do you prefer a single YAML index or a docs+scripts split (e.g., `inventory_scripts.yaml`, `inventory_docs.yaml`)?
   Answer: Preferance is to AI
   Assistant response: Copy that. I will prioritize whatever gives agents the fastest lookups—likely a single authoritative YAML for the AI to query, supplemented by generated per-domain views if we find they help with tooling or human review.

2. How should we version standards and instructions (semantic versioning, date-based stamps, or commit hash references)?
   Answer: Absolutely
   Assistant response: Great—we can track standards with semantic-style tags for major/minor changes and also include timestamp + commit metadata so both humans and agents can trace evolution precisely.

3. Do you want automated diff tooling that highlights changes between project-specific overrides and the global standards?
   Answer: You are on the right track
   Assistant response: Understood. I will plan for a diff command that compares local overrides with the global baseline and surfaces additions, deletions, and severity shifts for quick agent review.

4. When agents generate new reports or summaries, should they append to a timeline (retaining history) or replace the prior artifact with the latest snapshot?
   Answer: I have not thought about that. In the other repo, the agents use the `make health-suite` for repo wide snapshots and the individual tools (faulthandler, typecheck, anchor...) when we are cleaning and for stategies. Once the agents are activated, then they will use the abilities as well
   Assistant response: Makes sense. I will outline a hybrid approach—structured timelines for suite-level snapshots (so we can analyze trends) plus a “latest” pointer for the most recent run, while individual tools can overwrite or archive based on their purpose.

5. Should we formalize a naming convention for Make targets and scripts (e.g., `studio-*`) to reinforce separation from product code targets?
   Answer: Absolutely
   Assistant response: Perfect. I will propose a `studio-*` (or similar) prefix scheme and ensure supporting scripts follow the same namespace so it stays obvious what belongs to the studio toolkit.

6. Are there specific signals or metrics (beyond the existing reports) that you want the AI tooling to capture for future projects (e.g., dependency freshness, onboarding friction, documentation drift)?
   Answer: That is part of the enhancments that we will bake into "Repo Studios"
   Assistant response: Excellent. I’ll keep a placeholder list for future metrics and we can expand it as we identify new signals worth capturing during enhancements.

7. Would you like a governance checklist for when a project graduates from scaffold to mature phase (triggering stricter configs, retention rules, etc.)?
   Answer: How would that work?
   Assistant response: We can draft a staged checklist (scaffold → growth → mature) with entry criteria and required actions—once a repo hits each stage, agents enforce tighter policies, retain more history, and enable additional checks. Let me know if you’d like me to mock up the first pass.


## Follow-up Questions (round 4)
1. Should the inventory capture which agents or workflows consume each asset so we can map dependencies and avoid breaking critical paths?
   Answer: Repo-studios will not have agents per say, it will have the coding agent, like you
   Assistant response: Understood. I’ll frame the inventory around coding-agent consumption patterns so we can document which utilities I (or future coding agents) rely on while keeping space to add other automation personas later if needed.

2. Do you want a documented migration playbook for porting components from `repo_studios_legacy/` into the new `.repo_studios/` structure step by step?
   Answer: In the other repo, we have a folder called ``agent_notes/` and in that folder is a list of `.txt` docs that are written by the coding agent after it does something of size that has `"description"_YYYY-MM-DD_hhmmss.txt` for note taking and updates. This would work, right?
   Assistant response: Yes, that pattern will work nicely. I’ll outline a migration playbook that encourages agents to log substantial moves in that timestamped format so we maintain provenance while modernizing.

3. How should Make/automation entry points be exposed to agents—single umbrella target (e.g., `make studio`) or multiple task-specific commands?
   Answer: Correct. However, each level of automation would have a make target. 
   Assistant response: Got it. I’ll craft a tiered Make structure—high-level umbrella targets plus granular subcommands—so automation stays discoverable and composable.

4. Would you like a naming convention for documentation files (e.g., `std-global-*.md`, `std-project-*.md`) so agents can infer scope from filenames alone?
   Answer: Yes!!! 
   Assistant response: Excellent. I’ll draft a filename scheme that bakes scope into the prefix/suffix so agents can infer coverage before opening the file.

5. For sample data and fixtures bundled with the studio, should we keep lightweight examples in-repo or rely on generated-on-demand fixtures to reduce clutter?
   Answer: AI choice
   Assistant response: I’ll recommend a minimal curated set of samples kept in-repo for quick agent reference, with hooks to generate heavier fixtures on demand to keep the footprint lean.

6. Are there any access controls or secret-handling patterns we should bake into the template now (even if placeholders) to keep future projects compliant?
   Answer: Explain?
   Assistant response: Thinking ahead to secrets, API keys, or sensitive configs—we can bake in patterns like `.env.template`, vault integration hooks, or redaction utilities. I’ll prepare a brief explanation so you can decide which of those should be part of the baseline.

7. Should we codify this “AI and Developer Collaboration” method into a reusable guide so future projects can follow the same alignment workflow?
   Answer: I would like you to start another file (your choice of the file type) and begin building the "alignment_protocol" for “AI and Developer Collaboration” so when we are working that you can update the plan "Blueprint" doc (such as I am giving an implementation prompt from inside of a document)
   Assistant response: Perfect. I’ll spin up an `alignment_protocol` document capturing this collaboration blueprint so we can reference and evolve it alongside future projects.

   
## Follow-up Questions (round 5)
1. How formal should the migration playbook be—lightweight checklist inside `agent_notes/` or a structured doc with sections (scope, steps, validation, rollback)?
   Answer: Structured. The new repo can alter, if needed based on the needs of the project. 
   Assistant response: Great. I’ll outline a structured playbook template with sections for scope, dependencies, execution steps, validation, and rollback so each repo can adapt it while keeping a consistent backbone.

2. For the tiered Make targets, do you want a manifest (e.g., `make studio-help`) that lists all levels and their purposes for quick agent lookup?
   Answer: You got it... You will find a Make.md that demonstrates. However, the updating will be easier when we have a naming convention as you suggested
   Assistant response: Perfect. I’ll review `MAKE_TARGETS.md` and plan a `studio-help` style manifest aligned with the new naming convention so updates stay centralized.

3. When defining the doc naming convention, should we also embed version identifiers (e.g., `std-global-markdown_v1.2.md`) or keep versioning inside the document headers?
   Answer: Keep versioning inside with date and time stamps. So we know whats fresh
   Assistant response: Understood. Filenames will stay stable; version/timestamp metadata will live in document headers for clarity.

4. Should the curated sample data include anonymized examples from legacy reports to illustrate expected formats, or do you prefer synthetic placeholders?
   Answer: We will improve the data quality and standards from the legacy reports. There are formating and lint issues and such. These files and docs should be to repo studio standards
   Assistant response: Got it. I’ll prioritize refining the legacy samples to meet current standards so they serve as high-quality references.

5. For secret-handling guidance, would you like me to propose starter templates for `.env`, `.env.example`, and instructions for integrating with secret managers (Vault, AWS Secrets Manager, etc.)?
   Answer: Yes. Will this cut down on monkey patch usage?
   Assistant response: Starter templates and clear guidance should keep secrets out of code paths, which will in turn reduce the need for monkey patches that hide or rewrite sensitive data.

6. In the new `alignment_protocol` document, should we trace each collaboration step (questions, answers, decisions) chronologically or organize by phases (alignment, planning, implementation, review)?
   Answer: I like where you are going already. In time, we will continue this. 
   Assistant response: Sounds good. I’ll keep the phased structure and expand it as our collaboration pattern evolves.

7. Do you want automation to notify when agents add new entries to `agent_notes/` (e.g., via git hooks or summary reports), or is manual review sufficient for now?
   Answer: Manuel is fine for now
   Assistant response: Understood. We’ll rely on manual review for the time being and revisit automation later if needed.


Do we have enough data to create a separate doc to outline the project scope and direction?